Okay.
So we have now defined and exported an interface for a job object.
So now let's utilize it somewhere else in our app.
So I'm going to open up my file explorer and in my source.
Store directory.
We have our state gas file.
And as a reminder, here is where we set up the state function that's going to return our initial view
store state.
So the first thing I want to do is change this file to be a typescript file.
So I'm going to right click right here, click rename and then change the extension from JSS to test
for TypeScript.
Change that and we can see there's no errors so far in the file.
So all good.
Let me go ahead and collapse my file explorer and then drag this to the right hand side so we can see
it side by side with my job interface.
And what I want to do here is hover my mouse over my state function so I can see what TypeScript infers
the return value of this function to be, which will also be the type of this object right here that
I'm actually returning from the body of my state function.
So if I hover my mouse over state, you could see it gets some things right.
TypeScript, for example, correctly infers that is logged in is a boolean, but for the other three
properties of my state object, those are not correct.
For example, selected organizations should be a string array.
Selected job types should be a string array, and jobs is actually going to be an array of job objects.
Remember, that array is going to start out empty and then when our API request completes itself, we're
going to overwrite it with an array of job objects and each job is going to have the properties that
we see on the left hand side, so that never a keyword that you're seeing there simply means that TypeScript
thinks that array is never going to be populated.
In other words, it's always going to be empty, and that's not quite correct.
So the inference is not perfect, and we can tell TypeScript more specifically explicitly what we expect
these properties to be and what their types are.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to define an interface and that interface is going to represent
the state of my view X Store.
All right.
So I'm going to call this interface global state and I'm going to describe how my view X Store looks
now.
My global state choice of name is up to me.
I can call that global state.
I can call that view, store state, store, state, whatever we want, it's up to us.
The key takeaway here is in trying to describe to TypeScript what my view store will look like from
a type perspective, not from an implementation perspective, but from a type perspective.
So all I have to do is look at the four properties I have below, write them out and then write out
the types that they're going to be.
So is logged in.
We know that is going to be a boolean and then we're going to come to our jobs property below.
So what is jobs going to be?
Is it going to be an array of strings, an array of numbers, an array of booleans?
Nope.
It's going to be an array of job objects, not just any object, but jobs that implement or objects
that implement this interface right here on the left.
So what I want to do is import this interface so that I can use it within my global state interface.
So in this file I'm going to import my named job interface and that is going to come from the file on
the left, which is my source directory, the API folder, and then the types file.
That is a typescript file, but that's totally fine.
So now we have the interface from the left imported.
And the way I'm going to specify it is the same way I declare any other type of array in TypeScript.
You know, if I was to do something like String Array, it would of course be string array, right?
But what I have is a job array, so I'm going to write the word job and then these square brackets for
an array.
So this syntax uses a custom interface, a custom object type definition that I have to describe what
each value in this jobs array will consist of.
So just to clarify, I apologize if this is obvious, but jobs is not going to be a job property.
It's going to be a job array property.
It's it's type is an array holding job objects.
Each job object in this job array will have this shape that I have on the file on the left.
All right, then we move on to our other two properties, selected organizations.
That is going to be a string array, sort of like so.
And then finally selected job types is also going to be a string array.
All right.
There we go.
Now, what I want to do is specify that the return value of my state function down below is going to
have an object that fulfills the global state interface.
So instead of this default object that it thinks it's going to be, I'm going to tell it more explicitly
that this object right here is incorrect.
It's actually an object, the return value that satisfies this thing right here.
So the reminder, the way we do that is we put a colon after our initial parentheses definition.
And right here, I'm going to write Global State.
So now if I hover my mouse over the state function definition, you can see it realizes that it has
global state.
And if I have my mouse over a global state, unfortunate it's not showing up for me, but kind of makes
sense.
It represents this global state interface right here.
All right.
So that has been a lot of progress.
But now what I actually want to do is I want to move this entire interface to a separate types file.
I think sometimes it's a good idea to store your implementations and your actual interfaces and TypeScript
related contracts in separate files.
So here's what I want to do in my stored directory right here where I have all these files, I'm going
to create my new types.
That's file.
All right.
And then types that.
Yes, same name as my original types file in the API folder.
But of course this is types related to my view store.
That's why I'm putting it in here.
Here is where I'm going to move all of the logic that I have currently in the file on the right.
So let's move all this logic right here to right here and make sure that since we're declaring this
interface and we want to use it in my state, that's file I after.
I also have to make sure I export it right here.
So export interface, global state.
There we go.
We have job imported in this file, so we're able to use it in line like so we're using one interface
in another interface definition, totally fine.
And then in my actual state, that's file.
I now have to import my new global state interface.
So right here I'm going to import global state and that is going to come from the types folder.
But I want to give a specific import or an explicit top import.
So instead of the dot slash, what I'm going to do is the source directory store types.
Save that and there we go.
So now we are importing an interface from a Tapscott file and we're telling our new states TypeScript
file that our view state, the initial starting state and not just the starting state, but the entire
view store state as it's updated throughout the interaction with the program, for example, as we receive
jobs, as we receive selected organizations, selected job types, etc., that state that shape of that
JavaScript object will be of type global state.
And what is global state?
It is this object right here with for properties and specific type declarations for each and every property.
And we're going to see how by telling TypeScript this information, it's going to enable us to have
a lot of checks throughout our application to make sure we're doing everything correctly.
All right.
So moving in a really good direction and I will see you in the next lesson.